[Terry Greene] So, a win for us
in the kind of just
few months into the pandemic.
There's an organisation in
Ontario called eCampusOntario,
who is funded to help support
digital learning and
they got a nice chunk of funding
to get us to create some virtual
learning strategy projects and
we created one
for learners. The whole idea
is to help online learners
become more independent and...
so, it's called "The Liberated
Learner" and I'll put the thing
in here. And specifically the
part here that I think is a win
for accessibility is there's a
module called "The Technologist".
As in, you as a student can
become a technologist yourself
and
have skill in navigating
technology.
And there's a section on podcasting
and a section on video
production that I really
think helps support UDL
Universal Design for Learning in...
specifically in the multiple
means of expression. So, if you
as an instructor want to give
the students the opportunity to
not just do an essay, if they
don't want, but to create a
podcast or a video instead,
it's a little scary sometimes
because YOU may not know how to
support the creation of those
yourself. So, enter this module.
You can share it to your
students and say, "Hey, you wanna
do a podcast? Here's step by step
instructions for how to do that.
Can't wait to see it..." kind of
thing. And the pressures on you
less to do that. So that's
that's what I would call an
accessibility win for us.
And yeah, thank you.
[James Northridge] I guess
the other thing that's is a
major success and I have to
say a hat tip to Matt. We...
Last summer we ran
what we, what Matt, calls the
Ally Interns. And so we brought
in four interns last year,
student interns that worked with
us for ten weeks in the summer and
we took in twenty modules across the
university and we had the
students review those modules
for accessibility and it was a
really, really good success.
And we saw that the scores
jumped quite high in terms of
those twenty modules and
also we were building capacity
within those twenty staff.
So the instructors or staff that
ran those modules or courses
were then really brought into
that and we kind of brought them
on the journey. They had to meet
the students every
two weeks and we did a showcase
back to the staff in terms of
what the students learned. But I
guess again the
positive that came from that
was that this year, we just
we just interviewed on Monday
and Tuesday and we're taking on
18 (one eight), we're taking on
18 students as of the 6th of
June this year for another
10 weeks. And so we've really
ramped up that pilot
from last year and that's a...
we we have a phenomenal bunch of
students that are coming in this
year with like really good
experience of accessibility
which which I have to say I
was delighted to see. And we
just have this really
interesting group. We've had 100
and,  I checked us before we
came on here, we had 182 modules
submitted for review. And so
again, it's expression of
interest by staff and ideas that
staff are brought in to be part
of this and they have to
commit to meeting the students
regularly, and they have to
commit to giving the students
the support and ongoing
training. And what we'll do off
the back of those 18 students,
for next semesters, we'll
keep on four of them over
semester one and semester two to
sort of almost run our training
and a lot of the work that
we do over the summer will
inform the training
we develop for staff come
semester one. So that's that's a
big win for us and obviously was
a... I think in just to put a
financial figure on it. I think
it's costing us somewhere in the
region of
€60,000. Yeah, you know, it's,
it's, maybe 60, maybe
€70,000 to bring that bunch of
students in. But I do, I'm very
confident that we'll see big
results. So yeah, that's a big
win for us.
[Dr Tharindu Liyanagunawardena] The second one
I would liketo say is at University of Reading
I did a workshop with
the creative team at the
university. These are the
creative staff who create all
the beautiful brochures, prospectus,
anything that look amazing.
However, these were not always
fully accessible.
I'm so pleased to say that all
actively engaged in this workshop.
We are getting more than the
usual number of queries from the
creative team right now, but
this is because they are trying
to incorporate the accessibility
into their designs and also into
their practices.
Now, University of Reading
creative teams will produce not
just amazing looking content but
also amazing and accessible content.
So I think this is a
really big win.
[Sarah Whittaker] Thank you. I have two,
one recent and one from last year.
So last year we had the Ministry
of Education come in and mandate
actually that we provide
instructional design training to
all of our system course team
leaders. Those are the people
who are developing the courses
in Blackboard for their division
or for their specific courses.
So with that I snuck in
accessibility design into the
corse. I didn't sneak in and made
it very clear that that's what
we were doing. And and we had
over 500 people
complete the course with me last
year and the majority of those
people were system course team
leaders and they learnt about
colour contrast. And I went into
over 100 courses and I reviewed,
like you know, navigation, I
reviewed whether they're using
headings like their items and
then I built it into a really
fast-paced 2 hour workshop with
an applied knowledge assignment
afterwards. And they basically
had to redesign an item
and share it with us, like how
they would redesign it. And I'm
happy to announce there's no
yellow on white font in any of
our courses anymore. People are
actually using the headers,
people are adding, adding the
alt description to their images.
So it's a huge improvement from
what we were doing before.
So, we do a lot of our course re-designs
during the next couple of
months, actually in June, July.
So, last year it was a huge win for us.